In the past 10 years working in
marketing in paid social, I've
personally worked on tens of thousands
of static ads for brands like Laura
Geller, Wandering Bear Coffee, and
Nuts.com. And several of these ads have
actually gone on to make hundreds of
thousands of dollars in revenue. And in
some cases, like this, millions. And
then there's ads like this one that's
only been running for a few days in an
ad account and is already the top
performer. And I know what you're
thinking. Maybe at first glance, there's
nothing too special about these ad
creatives, but true expert performance
marketers can look at both of these ads
and tell you exactly why they're
working. So, in today's video, I'm going
to walk you through static ads like a
proper master class. We're going to
start by breaking down common myths and
go into the core principles and formats
that are behind all winning statics,
[music]
all while going through real examples so
you can actually see this in action. And
then I'm going to show you how to
actually take that thinking and turn it
into real ad creative that you can run
in your ad account using AI. So if
you're a brand or an agency and you want
to make some banger static ads, then
this is the video for you. First, let's
get some static ad myths out of the way
because I always hear these things when
focusing on image ads. Number [music]
one, statics are for retargeting or
bottom of funnel audiences only. Total
myth. The cool thing about statics,
however, is they can often help support
other top performing creatives
regardless of what the format is. But I
have seen in many, many instances, if
you're really able to zone in on the
levels of marketing awareness and you
have a good idea of who your persona is
and exactly how they talk on social, you
can make messaging to use on a static ad
that is going to reach those cold
audiences. So you can make actual
scalable creative. Now another thing
that I always hear is oh video is the
only thing that works for my brand which
is a total skill issue. Now, I often
find that the reason why brands get into
this trap is because they think about
statics from the perspective of format
only, and they're really not zeroing in
on the levels of awareness and how to
actually develop the type of messaging
that is going to wave a flag and
actually get your cold persona
interested. And another thing that I
often hear is that, oh, the best use
case of images are just to rapidly test
messaging. So you can then scale that
into video. And while I do love a format
swap with angles and certain messaging
points, that is working really well. If
you're just using images to quickly pump
out a bunch of static so that you can
get a read on what's working, then you
are really missing the magic that a
great static ad can do to not only your
ad account, but your overall business.
I've seen the right static completely
transform brands. So now let's go into
the patterns behind the static ads that
convert. Right? We are going to look at
this through three different layers.
Layer number one, before you even sit
down and start ideulating for what type
of image creative you want to make, you
really have to understand your strategy.
And these are the four things that you
really need to button up before you even
write a line of copy or decide what
format you're going to make. The first
thing is you really need to pick the
specific goal of the static. Is this an
offer ad? Is it for more education? Is
it to target someone who's problem
aware? Pick one. Don't try to do two
jobs in one ad. That's often where I
find a lot of people mess up with
statics is they try to make it do too
many things and speak to too many
people. And number two, you have to pick
your persona and not something broad
like small business owners. You need to
understand what type of small business
owner at what stage and with what
objection. Persona is going to drive the
type of vocabulary you're going to use.
The type of proof that you need to
provide in your statics and the type of
objections that they are actively
looking for you to answer. Now, of
course, you can choose to make more of a
retargeting ad that speaks to multiple
personas and supports multiple types of
creatives that you're making. But if you
are looking to generate top ofunnel
killer statics, then this is definitely
a conscious choice that you need to
make. And number three, yes, you should
pick that format. And we're going to go
over the core formats that you should
always be testing in just a bit. But
your format's going to decide what type
of copy is going to survive, what the
image is really going to have to carry,
and what type of copywriting frameworks
are even viable. And then the fourth
thing you're going to do is you're going
to have to match it with a specific
level of awareness. This is ultimately
going to be the bridge that connects the
persona and goal to the framework. Layer
number two is the design. Number one,
they're going to need to have a visual
hierarchy. So, the headline generally is
the thing that should always come first.
That's going to do your targeting. And
then you're going to have the product or
a key visual. And then you'll have your
supporting elements. And the way that I
like to think about it is like the focal
point or where the eye goes first should
be on the messaging. that sometimes,
yes, the image is going to be the thing
that stops the scroll ultimately and
they're going to immediately decide, oh
my goodness, like what's going on here?
Go up to the copy. But nine times out of
10, your focal point is going to be
either that initial text headline or the
visual. And most of the time I am going
for that text. Now, another thing that I
like to do is run a 1 second
comprehension test. Ultimately, clarity
is always going to outbeat creativity.
If a stranger cannot tell what you are
selling in one minute or what type of
message you're trying to communicate,
that's a signal that you need to kill
it. Actually, I just saw one of my
creative strategists send over this
image ad to me and I was like, "What is
going on here? There's way too much
going on and we don't have a focal
point. We don't have the right design
hierarchy. It needs to go. We need to
scrap it." Something like this is
following that principle a lot better.
Now, layer number three is going to be
the most important. This is where you
really honing in on your copy and
crafting that messaging for your
personas. And number one is an excellent
starting point, but you have to be
specific. If you're saying something
generic, it's always going to lose. So
name your specific demographic. Call
them out. [music] Give exact numbers and
lead with real outcomes. And one of the
best ways to do that is to lead with a
number that really communicates that
time and that effort or that cost. So,
[music] five minutes under $5 or 2 in in
just one use. Another thing that I like
to do is to directly call out that
audience by name. Self- selection is
absolutely [music] a copy mechanic and
it is going to really help the targeting
of your ad overall. And number four is
to lean into the taboo. Say what your
competitors are too polite to say.
oftentimes things like this go a long
way in not only stopping the scroll but
also identifying with your personas on a
much deeper level. And number five is
you need to learn how to tap into a
primal desire and not just communicate
product benefits, status, sex,
belonging, safety, and approval. The
product is just the mechanism. It's the
way that they get those things, but the
actual desire is the headline. And
another trick that I like to do is to
open a curiosity loop. So you should
show the setup but hide the payoff
through the click. And if you find that
one of these become top performers,
absolutely make sure that you are
setting up for their curiosity to be
satisfied on the landing [music] page.
And then another strategy that I like to
do is to lean into negative marketing.
So this is just simply saying things in
a [music] negative aspect. And you can
also think of it as a way to name what
your audience is afraid of. Now, one of
the best things you can do is actually
not going to be you generating [music]
or writing copy at all, but it is
actually borrowing from what your
customers are saying and really
specifically looking out for those
golden nugget testimonials. So, [music]
you can actually run a CSV of all of
your reviews to your LLM of choice and
say, "Hey, find me these golden nugget
testimonials." That would work really
well in advertising. This again and
again has gotten me winners. And then
finally, show that transformation. Don't
just describe the after state. Actually
show it. This is why before and after
ads work so well. And I know what you
might be thinking. Before and after ads
are illegal. I can't believe people are
still saying this in 2026. They are
absolutely not. But you are going to
have a lot more restriction around
cosmetic procedures or weight loss types
of products. So when I take a step back
and look at all of the winning ad
creative that I've had a part in and
really all the messaging that candidly
not only works across static ads but
also video a lot of times they are
falling into these categories and into
these principles. So at bare minimum you
need to be doing one of the above to get
a top performing static ad. Now that you
know the tenets of what makes a really
good static it's time to bring that to
life. Now, I will say that this is often
where I do like to start when having
conversations with junior teammates
about what types of static ads creative
to make because number one, making sure
that you have different visuals is
really, really good for creative
diversity. So, if you already have a
piece of messaging that's working really
well, bringing that over to other
different visual formats is a really
easy way to make sure that you're
getting more volume and getting better
performance. However, knowing the core
formats is also vital for understanding
what types of components of the ad that
you're going to actually need to
compile. So, the first thing that you're
going to need to do is understand your
format production level. And it tends to
fall into one of three buckets. It's
going to be your graphic style creative
versus your hi-fi production and then
your lowfi creator content. And it's
interesting. I actually find that a lot
of brands, especially when they're
thinking statics, forget about loi
creator content. And hint hint, a number
of these lowfi creator types of statics,
is something that I really see moving
the needle right now in my clients ad
accounts. So then when we take that
production level and then branch that
out into the formats, here are the ones
that you're going to want to make sure
that you're always testing. Number one,
educational infographics. Now, this
alone is something that I've seen create
really great top offunnel ad creatives
recently. And the thing that is so great
about this ad creative is it actually
does masquerade as something that does
do well organically and really doesn't
feel like an ad because it's providing a
lot more of that upfront education. And
the way that you should really approach
this is, hey, how can I create a piece
of content that any one of my personas
is actually going to benefit from?
really think from the value that you can
provide in more education, in
entertainment, or even using it as a way
to narrow down choices. And the next one
is what I like to call the headliner ad.
Now, the focus of this is on that sexy
messaging. [music]
So, if you're really thinking about,
hey, I want to do like a taboo style ad,
this is the format that you're going to
want to connect with that hands down.
The messaging is the focal point here.
Now these headline ads have had a few
transformation over the years but this
is something that has worked for
decades. Oglev used to use this type of
ad when creating for the print era and
this is really the way that you should
think about it. What is that big
headline that you can put front and
center? Another type of format that
worked really well during the old v
print era are callouts. I believe I used
to call this a features call outs. Now
I'm just calling it more or less a
benefits call out. This is something
that even when you saw at the top of
this video, hey, this is something
that's still working in today's era. And
I always really like to test a few
things with that headline at the top.
Number one, this is a great one to tap
into the core desire versus just, you
know, saying something generic. And it's
also another one where you could slide
in a golden nugget testimonial. And
then, of course, there are the
comparison formats. So this would be the
infamous us versus them style. Still
cranking, not going to say much more
than that. And then there are the
transformation format. So these are the
ones that are really showing the
transformation that occurs through your
product or service. This is the one that
I often find is the biggest gap in ad
accounts and also has the biggest
opportunity for unlocking that problem
and solutionaware audience. At that
point, they're just looking for proof.
They're just looking for an answer. And
then another one that I don't often hear
many brands talk about is the grid
static. This is another OG type of ad
that worked really well during the print
era, but especially for apparel brands
or brands that have multiple SKs. This
is one that I always make sure that we
have on deck, especially during sales
periods. But if you look at that top
performer for Laura Geller, you can see
a similar pattern here. And then
finally, a bit of a hot take, but
textonly ads are ads that are primarily
textdriven. Now, this is another one
where we are borrowing from what is
working as an organic [music] format.
And even though sometimes clients are a
little nervous when I show them this
one, I've seen founders letters or
things like this and this do really,
really well. Now, I want to talk to you
about how you can get these creatives
made not only quickly and effectively,
but also strategically. And for this,
we're going to be using a combination of
Claude for generating the overall brand
brain that you're going to be developing
and then using Super Scale for the
actual production of the asset. Now,
Supercale has actually partnered with me
on this video, and I got to say, I have
tested a ton of AI ad makers over the
last few years, and most of them left me
wanting a lot more. But I have pressure
tested this through several brands now.
And honestly, I'm pretty impressed with
what they are able to develop. This is
truly a different platform and I'm
really excited to partner with them on
it and to show you guys this new process
that I have. So, Supercale is a fully
autonomous AI agent that can research,
strategize, and develop ad creative for
you. And for the purposes of this video,
we're going to focus mostly on static
generation, but they do have video
generation capabilities as well. Now you
can get set up with just your URL and it
is going to pull your brand, your
products, your branding. So your fonts
and your colors all from that URL. It is
quite incredible. And then it's going to
do research on not only your brand but
your competitors as well. So
automatically it already has this really
great database on how to make statics
that are going to actually perform for
you. But the way that I like to use it
in addition to this is right here.
First, what you're going to do is go to
Claude and you're going to export your
brand brain and any other context
documents that you have. If you don't
have that yet, here's a really great
prompt that I use for all of my brands
to build this. You're going to add this
document to the context and skills
section, which is going to increase
super skills overall knowledge of the
brand. Once you're ready to start making
ads, you're going to go back to the main
section and add this prompt. And
essentially what you're going to be
doing here is running another creative
strategy audit. But I think it's really
really important to give this additional
context to super scale because I found
that it's able to generate even better
static. So let's go ahead and run this.
And there it starts working. Now this is
going to take a little while, right?
It's going to be essentially going
through all of the research and can take
anywhere from two to sometimes 5
minutes. So I'll come back to you once
we're done for next steps. And there you
can see it's actually starting to run
sub aents. So it's looking at active ads
and it's also going to be scanning
competitor ad libraries. There it goes.
So cool to see this in action. Wow. And
you can see Native deodorant, every man
Jack, Harry's even. So it's really doing
its diligence in terms of analyzing your
competitors. That's why with these AI
platforms, I always really like it to do
a round of research first before we jump
right into production because I find
that it often gives these platforms more
context and a better end result. But it
also teaches me something new.
Interesting. And I also see that for the
competitor ads, it's giving them a score
average winning ad score of 62 80.
Interesting. Okay. And now it is
compiling the final synthesis finally.
But yeah, I mean, I think that's
actually a really good sign. It took
like a full four minutes to do research.
So, I'm really excited to see what it
comes back with. And what the point of
this research is is it's really doing a
creative gap analysis, especially when
it relates to statics. Are there certain
marketing levels of awareness that we're
not properly targeting? Are there
certain personas that we're not
targeting? Are there certain formats
that we're not using? So, we don't
actually have a good creative diversity.
This report is going to tell us that and
Supercale is going to essentially jump
in to provide that creative diversity in
the form of statics, but they do videos
as well. Okay, here's the report. First,
it goes into an executive summary to
really zoom in on the Dr. squatch
specific ads. But then what it does is
after analyzing everything from the
competitors and your own library. Then
it's going to identify, hey, this is
what you really have in rotation
currently. This is your catalog. But
then it's going to give us specific
recommendations based on this gap. Okay.
It says archetypes not present in the
library, a comparison or us versus that
ad in infographic or ingredient
breakdowns. I think this also has to
relate to the market or sophistication
level that Dr. Squatch is currently at.
You know, they're playing a much
different game than a newer brand, I'd
say. But for what it's worth, there are
a few of these that I'm like, hm, I do
think it's worth getting into rotation.
And then there's the market
sophistication scale. And this is where
the market is now. Improved mechanism
and identification. I like this
competitor analysis. It's really simple.
Interesting that Everyman Jack's top
performers are all comparison and
problem solutionoriented formats, which
is what Dr. Squatch is missing. But
again, I feel like they're playing a
different game. And here is the gap
analysis. Interesting.
All right, so they're obviously doing
the problemaw aare comparison. And then
number two, problem agitation pit stain
statics. I actually really agree with
this one. I noticed doing a lot of
research on Dr. squatch that the
non-staming formula was one of their
biggest angles right now. And I think
that there's a way that we can really
dive into that. The what's not in it
infographic. I really like that idea
actually. See, but I don't like this one
though. The review collage or social
proof statics. I noticed that sometimes
Super Scale will do something that's
really customer review quote heavy and I
don't really love how those always turn
out. I'll be sure to show a few examples
here of exactly what I mean. Okay. What
then I want to do is I want us to
actually make some of these so that you
can see the actual output because again
the first step that I do is the research
and then it's the actual static ad
output and you can tell it too how many
variations you want. I often like to
stick to about three in the beginning
cuz I find that that's where I'm able to
get the best output. So, we're going to
put here, make me three static ad
variations
of this.
All right. Enter. Okay, it's starting to
make them. So, you can see the outputs
window pulls up, but you can also see it
here. And you can see here the
variations that it shows, too. A
disgusting closeup. Oh, no. A before and
after split. Interesting. And then a
bold statement flatlay. Blame your Dia.
Wow, that looks like a coffee stain.
Your Dio is ruining your shirts. That is
disgusting. I kind of think it would
work for Dr. Squash, though. Although, I
don't like this M dash. And that's
really visceral. Wow. Wow. I'm having
kind of a strong reaction to this. And I
think it's actually for the better
because that looks so disgusting. I'm
going to show you another cool thing
that you can do with Super Scale. So,
you know how I said I hated this M dash,
right? So, what you can do here is click
edit. And I'm hating this gunky armpit,
but you can say remove the m dash. Send
edit to chat. Enter. Honestly, I'm
pretty impressed with those. Like, I'm
going to show some Dr. Squatch ads on
the screen right now. And as a
strategist, I actually would suggest
they lean a little bit more into the
visceral because right now they're
playing it very clean and very safe. And
if they really wanted to go down this
like anti-gunky
pit line, I think that would be a good
thing for them. But yeah, and then here
is the edit on that first one. Although
Dior Durant, I don't think that's how
you're spelling deodorant, right? We
will change that. But it did a really
good change. Okay, let me edit this.
Actually, I think this is because Super
Skill is originally German. Deodorant is
spelled wrong. Please spell it
correctly. Enter. And then I want to go
back to this one. Okay, so for this one,
I do have a few feedback rounds. So,
let's get into it. Um, change the
background to a beige doctor squatch
color. Change the deodorant to a beige
doctor swatch color. The white on white
makes it hard to see that it is a
t-shirt. And please make the t-shirt
smaller. Save. Send one. Edit to chat.
Yes, there we go. See, that was really
easy to do. And it's not doing like any
weird text things. Dr. Squad, let me
know if you would run these. I I think I
would. I want to show you another thing
that I often do with Super Scale. So,
we'll go ahead and do a new chat. Right
now, if you have an ad like this for
instance, this is a common Dr. Squatch
type of ad, like a features call out,
and you want to make different
variations of it. What you can do, and
yeah, you can even do it with your
competitor's ads, too, is say, "Hey,
make me five more variations of this ad
that could fit three different personas.
[music] I want to target mostly problem
aare [music]
audience." Ooh, and I think our Dio came
back. Wow, that was a pretty good edit.
Blame your DO, not your shirts. Well
done, Super Scale. Right. I mean, but I
kind of like that we got some other
stuff going, right? So, let's This is
the problem with Super Scale. Is this a
problem where like I'll get started on
one thing with a client and then I'll be
like, "Oh, this gives me an idea for
another thing." So, then at times I will
have literally like five things going on
and I'm like going crazy. But again,
this is why I always like to start the
platform off with research cuz it is
really good at research. And I know that
a number of you had feedback about the
Claude Co-work video where, hey, you're
not actually able to analyze ad
libraries. With Super Scale, you are
actually able to analyze ad libraries.
So, that is a very, very big perk here.
Still skipping sunscreen because it's
too greasy. Yeah, we fixed that.
Non-greasy. Spray on and go. 98%
natural. Again, I'm going to show some
more actually launched Dr. Squatch ads.
These are pretty similar, although I
would make this a little smaller. One
thing I will flag is sometimes there's a
little bit too much going on. So earlier
we were talking about visual hierarchy
and how like less is more often with
these statics this and this and this and
this. It's a little bit much but the
bones are there. See one thing you do
need to be aware of. That's a little
basic for me. But yeah, I don't like how
that's going up. But I'd say these are
uh this one's good. But it's a little
too much text, you know. But luckily
that's really easy to fix. And I'm not
sure what's going on with this this
bottom and top one. You know what? We're
going to redo this one. Make me five
different
variations of this ad for a solution
aware audience. Anyways, every single
output isn't something that's going to
be readily usable. I would never ever
say that about an AI platform. But
candidly, the reason why I agreed to
work with Supercale and have really
enjoyed using their platform with my
brand is because it is actually easy to
make edits and then get that final
output that you actually are really
excited to launch in the ad account.
Okay, so now that I showed you how to
make ads in Supercale, what I'm actually
going to do is make a few more for my
clients and then come back to you in a
few days and show you the actual ads
that I made and the results of those
[music] ads. So stay tuned.